README.md, before:

[![Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-stable-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/kubewarden/community/blob/main/REPOSITORIES.md#stable)

# High-Risk Service Account Blocker

Kubernetes [service
accounts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/) are
account types used by workloads running in the cluster. A service account can
grant credentials to workloads, enabling them to perform a wide range of
cluster operations. This can be dangerous when a workload is able to manipulate
resources it is not authorized to. This policy aims to mitigate such risks by
preventing resources that utilize high-risk service accounts from being
deployed in the cluster. To achieve this, the policy leverages the Kubernetes
authorization API. It assesses whether a service account has permissions to
perform operations that are not allowed. If such unauthorized permissions are
detected, the request is rejected.

Every time a resource that defines a service account is submitted to the
cluster, the policy will query the Kubernetes authorization API the to check if
the given ServiceAccount has some permissions that it shouldn't. To perform
this verification, the policy will create an
[SubjectAccessReview](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.32/#subjectaccessreview-v1-authorization-k8s-io)
and apply it to cluster check the service account permissions. If the result
returned that the service account can perform such operation, the request is
rejected.

When the policy builds the `SubjectAccessReview` the user set in in the
resource is defined by `system:serviceaccount:<namespace>:<service-account>`.
Where the `namespace` is the namespace from the request and the
`service-account` is the service account from the resource being deployed or
the `default` one.

## Example

The policy settings consist of a list of rules that service accounts are
prohibited from having defined in any of their associated roles and cluster
roles. The rules follow the same syntax as those defined in the
[roles](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.32/#policyrule-v1-rbac-authorization-k8s-io)
specification.

```yaml
blockRules:
  # For listing secrets
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["secrets"]
    verbs: ["list"]

  # For executing commands in containers
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/exec"]
    verbs: ["create"]

  # Full access to all workload resources
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods", "pods/log"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  - apiGroups: ["apps"]
    resources: ["deployments", "statefulsets", "daemonsets", "replicasets"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["jobs", "cronjobs"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  - apiGroups: ["autoscaling"]
    resources: ["horizontalpodautoscalers"]
    verbs: ["*"]

  # Full access to RBAC resources within a namespace
  - apiGroups: ["rbac.authorization.k8s.io"]
    resources: ["roles", "rolebindings"]
    verbs: ["*"]
    namespace: "mynamespace"
```

The verbs field allow the following values: "create", "update", "delete",
"get", "list", "watch", "proxy", "\*", "patch" and "deletecollection"

For example, if the policy is deployed with the previous configuration in a
cluster that has a service account like this:

```yaml
---
# ServiceAccount
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: super-admin-sa
  namespace: default

---
# Powerful Role with all requested permissions
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: super-admin-role
  namespace: default
rules:
  # For listing secrets
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["secrets"]
    verbs: ["list"]

  # For executing commands in containers
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/exec"]
    verbs: ["create"]

  # Full access to all workload resources
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods", "pods/log"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  - apiGroups: ["apps"]
    resources: ["deployments", "statefulsets", "daemonsets", "replicasets"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["jobs", "cronjobs"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  - apiGroups: ["autoscaling"]
    resources: ["horizontalpodautoscalers"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  # Full access to RBAC resources within namespace
  - apiGroups: ["rbac.authorization.k8s.io"]
    resources: ["roles", "rolebindings"]
    verbs: ["*"]

---
# RoleBinding for namespace-scoped permissions
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: super-admin-rolebinding
  namespace: default
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: super-admin-sa
    namespace: default
roleRef:
  kind: Role
  name: super-admin-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

The following deployment would not be allowed in the cluster:

```yaml
---
# Deployment using the powerful ServiceAccount
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: super-admin-deployment
  namespace: default
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: super-admin-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: super-admin-app
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: super-admin-sa
      containers:
        - name: main
          image: nginx:alpine
          ports:
            - containerPort: 80
        - name: kubectl
          image: bitnami/kubectl:latest
          command: ["sleep", "infinity"]
```

In the prevous example, the user set in the `SubjectAccessReview` resource
would be `syste:serviceaccount:default:super-admin-sa`.

Commit message:

feat: ignoreEvaluationErrors configuration.
Adds a new configuration to make the policy to ignore or not any
possible evaluation error returned by the authorization plugins.

Signed-off-by: José Guilherme Vanz <jguilhermevanz@suse.com>

README.md, after:

[![Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-stable-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/kubewarden/community/blob/main/REPOSITORIES.md#stable)

# High-Risk Service Account Blocker

Kubernetes [service
accounts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/) are
account types used by workloads running in the cluster. A service account can
grant credentials to workloads, enabling them to perform a wide range of
cluster operations. This can be dangerous when a workload is able to manipulate
resources it is not authorized to. This policy aims to mitigate such risks by
preventing resources that utilize high-risk service accounts from being
deployed in the cluster. To achieve this, the policy leverages the Kubernetes
authorization API. It assesses whether a service account has permissions to
perform operations that are not allowed. If such unauthorized permissions are
detected, the request is rejected.

Every time a resource that defines a service account is submitted to the
cluster, the policy will query the Kubernetes authorization API the to check if
the given ServiceAccount has some permissions that it shouldn't. To perform
this verification, the policy will create an
[SubjectAccessReview](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.32/#subjectaccessreview-v1-authorization-k8s-io)
and apply it to cluster check the service account permissions. If the result
returned that the service account can perform such operation, the request is
rejected.

When the policy builds the `SubjectAccessReview` the user set in in the
resource is defined by `system:serviceaccount:<namespace>:<service-account>`.
Where the `namespace` is the namespace from the request and the
`service-account` is the service account from the resource being deployed or
the `default` one.

## Example

The policy settings consist of a list of rules that service accounts are
prohibited from having defined in any of their associated roles and cluster
roles. The rules follow the same syntax as those defined in the
[roles](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.32/#policyrule-v1-rbac-authorization-k8s-io)
specification.

```yaml
blockRules:
  # For listing secrets
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["secrets"]
    verbs: ["list"]

  # For executing commands in containers
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/exec"]
    verbs: ["create"]

  # Full access to all workload resources
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods", "pods/log"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  - apiGroups: ["apps"]
    resources: ["deployments", "statefulsets", "daemonsets", "replicasets"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["jobs", "cronjobs"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  - apiGroups: ["autoscaling"]
    resources: ["horizontalpodautoscalers"]
    verbs: ["*"]

  # Full access to RBAC resources within a namespace
  - apiGroups: ["rbac.authorization.k8s.io"]
    resources: ["roles", "rolebindings"]
    verbs: ["*"]
    namespace: "mynamespace"
#ignoreEvaluationErrors: true
```

The verbs field allow the following values: "create", "update", "delete",
"get", "list", "watch", "proxy", "\*", "patch" and "deletecollection"

The `ignoreEvaluationErrors` field controls how the policy behaves when an
authorization plugin fails to evaluate the `SubjectAccessReview`. This is an
optional field, and its default value is `true`.

If `ignoreEvaluationErrors` is set to `true` (the default), an evaluation error
occurs, and the `SubjectAccessReview` returned that the operation is "not
allowed" the evaluation error is ignored and the review result returned by the
authorization API is considered as it is.

If `ignoreEvaluationErrors` is set to `false`, an evaluation error occurs, and
the `SubjectAccessReview` returned that the operation is "not allowed" the
review result is still considered "allowed". Causing a rejections of the
admission request and returning the evaluation error to the user.

For example, if the policy is deployed with the previous configuration in a
cluster that has a service account like this:

```yaml
---
# ServiceAccount
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: super-admin-sa
  namespace: default

---
# Powerful Role with all requested permissions
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: super-admin-role
  namespace: default
rules:
  # For listing secrets
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["secrets"]
    verbs: ["list"]

  # For executing commands in containers
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/exec"]
    verbs: ["create"]

  # Full access to all workload resources
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods", "pods/log"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  - apiGroups: ["apps"]
    resources: ["deployments", "statefulsets", "daemonsets", "replicasets"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["jobs", "cronjobs"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  - apiGroups: ["autoscaling"]
    resources: ["horizontalpodautoscalers"]
    verbs: ["*"]
  # Full access to RBAC resources within namespace
  - apiGroups: ["rbac.authorization.k8s.io"]
    resources: ["roles", "rolebindings"]
    verbs: ["*"]

---
# RoleBinding for namespace-scoped permissions
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: super-admin-rolebinding
  namespace: default
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: super-admin-sa
    namespace: default
roleRef:
  kind: Role
  name: super-admin-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

The following deployment would not be allowed in the cluster:

```yaml
---
# Deployment using the powerful ServiceAccount
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: super-admin-deployment
  namespace: default
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: super-admin-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: super-admin-app
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: super-admin-sa
      containers:
        - name: main
          image: nginx:alpine
          ports:
            - containerPort: 80
        - name: kubectl
          image: bitnami/kubectl:latest
          command: ["sleep", "infinity"]
```

In the prevous example, the user set in the `SubjectAccessReview` resource
would be `syste:serviceaccount:default:super-admin-sa`.
